hi I'm Paul Hill and a bonsai and I just
want to give some information for those
of you that are starting out in bonsai
and don't actually know where to start
there's it could be a little
overwhelming in the beginning and a
little bit confusing with so much
information out there but not knowing
exactly which way to sort it out for the
first step is to find some basic
information about bonsai there's a
couple sources that I would suggest one
which is books the second which is the
Internet
I suggest books because there's good
information that's been captured over
the years by very well-known bonsai
artists and there's a couple books that
I would suggest as must-reads
john naw he wrote two books bonsai
techniques one and two and these go from
the very basics to advanced techniques
for for dealing with multiple trees
different styles and different
techniques for developing bonsai they
are a must read and I consider the
bonsai bible second I would suggest is a
book written by David de Groot it's
called basic bone site design and it was
a very useful book for me when I started
out because it really is a very basic
book but it hits some really good
information as far as how large your
tree should be how big the trunk should
be how big do pasta P and it's a very
good way to go you know learn by almost
like paint by the numbers I'm not sure
it's in print anymore but the last place
I saw it was American bonsai society's
website or ABS bones I believe is their
website I'll put a link right below or
maybe one of these little tabs will pop
up and let you know what the actual link
is to get you there the second place I
would suggest is the internet it's how
you found this video and it's a great
source for finding what other people are
doing in the not only around the United
States but around the world it's very
important in bonsai that you can
recognize the difference between a
bonsai and a very good bonsai sometimes
it's a very subtle difference but you
need to train your eye the best advice I
ever got I believe is from Mike Rogers
who said to me to do good bonsai you
need to see good bonsai and the best way
to find that is on the internet you're
gonna find beautiful beautiful examples
of trees and there's a lot of websites
out there including Orlando bonsai this
shows start to finish how to develop a
tree all the way from pre bond site or
landscaping material or material that
you find in a local nursery and develop
into a very well established and very
finished looking bones additionally I
can't stress enough the importance of
finding support locally and through the
internet to help you develop your skills
in bonsai there are there are bus eye
clubs located all over the world
bonsai societies of Florida is a great
source if you're located in to the state
of Florida where I am bonsai his bonsai
clubs international is another location
we might find information about a local
club for yourself or American bonsai
societies all of them have great
listings of clubs that are local in your
area I know it sounds intimidating to
join a bunch like Club but I gotta tell
you that bone sight people love to talk
about bonsai
you can get you can ask any question and
you're gonna find that those people want
to tell you more and more about how to
develop bonsai how to get you involved
in how you can care for your trees and
develop your skills this is an art form
that people love to share and it is a
admired in so many countries and it's
just a growing hobby that people will
really enjoy a lot of people find out
it's an obsession that once you start
doing it you just can't stop because
it's so rewarding once you're in the
club you're gonna see other people bring
in trees of their collections it's
usually done through this show-and-tell
look at the trees if they have trees
like you would like to have those are
the people you want to follow there's a
lot of different people out there that
do different kinds of styles but find
what you like and once you establish
that relationship that's the kind of
person that you're gonna waste a to stay
with
throughout your bonsai career it's
always good to have the second pair of
eyes when you're working on the tree
there's so many times when you look at a
tree on a daily basis and don't really
notice you know the problems with the
tree because you're so into the details
so sometimes when you get a second
opinion from either a mentor or another
club member it helps you to see the tree
in a different way and it'll help you to
develop your trees much better I hope
this helps you can always follow my
progression on Orlando bonsai and see
that the way that I develop my trees if
you have any questions or comments
please feel free to send me an email at
Paul Orlando bonsai comm and I'll be
glad to help you out talk to you soon